# Blast Simulation
This repository contains the code needed to reproduce the figures in the paper Fast Estimation of the Diffractive Loads on a Quadrotor UAV Following an Explosive Blast.  Each folder is numbered after the respective figures that are generated within.  The LaTex source for the paper is included as well.  General subroutines for the models are included in 00_subroutines.

# Information about the paper
### Fast Estimation of the Diffractive Loads on a Quadrotor UAV Following an Explosive Blast
#### Nicholas P. Kakavitsas, Andrew Willis, Dipankar Maity, and Artur Wolek
This work develops a tool to efficiently estimate the diffractive loads on a quadrotor uncrewed aerial vehicle (UAV) immediately following a nearby explosion. Existing models in the literature that predict  the time history of  wind velocity and the overpressure at a single distance from the blast  are extended to model a  moving blast wave that passes over the vehicle. The time-varying diffractive loads (i.e., due to the blast-induced pressure differential) are first modeled for a single sphere in a blast wave and then for a quadrotor approximated as a series of spheres connected by rods --- one sphere for each of the four motors and one sphere for the central body. The overpressure and wind velocity models are compared to computational fluid dynamics (CFD) data. To illustrate the computational approach, a representative quadrotor model is perturbed by a blast from an initial hover flight condition in simulation.  The rigid body dynamics are simulated over a short duration (ninety milliseconds) to determine the UAV's state immediately after the explosion has concluded.  The vehicle state history is predicted under the assumption of diffractive loads with a quadratic drag model and constant hover thrust.
